


FESTIVAL(1)		  User Commands		      FESTIVAL(1)



NAME
     festival -	a text-to-speech system.

SYNOPSIS
     festival [options]	[file0]	[file1]	...



DESCRIPTION
     Festival is a general  purpose  text-to-speech  system.   As
     well as simply rendering text as speech it	can be used in an
     interactive command mode for testing and developing  various
     aspects of	speech synthesis technology.

     Festival has two major  modes,  command  and  tts	(text-to-
     speech).	When in	command	mode input (from file or interac-
     tively) is	interpreted by the command interpreter.	 When  in
     tts mode input is rendered	as speech.


OPTIONS
     -h	print help information

     -q	      Start without loading any	initialization files.

     --libdir PATH
	     Specify alternate to default library directory (used
	     in	 initializing  the  variable  load-path,  and for
	     loading most intinialisation files)

     -b	or --batch
	     Run in batch mode.	 In batch mode no input	 is  read
	     from standard input

     -i	or --interactive
	     Run in interactive	mode.  In intteractive mode input
	     (commands	or  text)  is  read  from standard input.
	     When in command mode (the default)	a readline  based
	     Lisp    read-eval-print   command	 interpreter   is
	     presented.

     --server
	     Run in server mode.  Any file arguments  are  loaded
	     9and interpreted, before going into server	mode.  In
	     server mode Festival waits	for clients on port  1314
	     (by  default).   Note server mode can give	unauthor-
	     ised access to your machine, please read the section
	     in	 the  manual  entitled	Server/client  API before
	     using this	mode.

     --tts     Run in tts mode.	 All files argument  are  treated
	     as	 text  files to	be said.  Unless interactive mode



SunOS 5.5.1	    Last change: 4th Feb 1996			1






FESTIVAL(1)		  User Commands		      FESTIVAL(1)



	     is	explicitly specified no	input is read from  stan-
	     dard input, unless	no files are specified.

     --language	LANG
	     Where LANG	is one of english  (default)  spanish  or
	     welsh.  Select  that  language  for basic operation,
	     command or	tts.  This may be change during	a session
	     with the command select_language.

     -v	      Display version number and exit.


BUGS
     More than you can imagine.

     A manual with much	detail (though not complete) is	available
     in	info (or html) format.


AUTHOR
     Alan W Black and Paul Taylor
     (C) Centre	for Speech Technology Research
     University	of Edinburgh
     80	South Bridge
     Edinburgh EH1 1HN






























SunOS 5.5.1	    Last change: 4th Feb 1996			2



